---
title: "Skill Expansion and Composition in Parameter Space"
collection: publications_conference
permalink: /publication/2025-PSEC
excerpt: "13th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2025)."
date: 2025-1-23
venue: '13th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2025).'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Liu, T., Li, J., Zheng, Y., Niu, H., Lan, Y., Xu, X., <b>Zhan, X.</b> Skill Expansion and Composition in Parameter Space. In the <i>13th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2025)</i>.'
---

Abstract
---
Humans excel at reusing prior knowledge to address new challenges and developing skills while solving problems. This paradigm becomes increasingly popular in the development of autonomous agents, as it develops systems that can self-evolve in response to new challenges like human beings. However, previous methods suffer from limited training efficiency when expanding new skills and fail to fully leverage prior knowledge to facilitate new task learning. We propose Parametric Skill Expansion and Composition (PSEC), a new framework designed to iteratively evolve the agents' capabilities and efficiently address new challenges by maintaining a manageable skill library. This library can progressively integrate skill primitives as plug-and-play Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) modules in parameter-efficient finetuning, facilitating efficient and flexible skill expansion. This structure also enables the direct skill compositions in parameter space by merging LoRA modules that encode different skills, leveraging shared information across skills to effectively program new skills. Based on this, we propose a context-aware modular to dynamically activate different skills to collaboratively handle new tasks. Empowering diverse applications including multi-objective composition, dynamics shift, and continual policy shift, the results on D4RL, DSRL benchmarks, and the DeepMind Control Suite show that PSEC exhibits superior capacity to leverage prior knowledge to efficiently tackle new challenges, as well as expand its skill libraries to evolve the capabilities.

Other information
---
* [Paper](https://openreview.net/forum?id=GLWf2fq0bX)